# 41189-Weekly-Journal


•	What have I learnt this week?
Through meticulous reflection into the Introduction to Human-Centred Complex Systems workshop, I have gained enlightening insights which provided a new framework when addressing a large-scale system comprising of many elements. More specifically, within week one, I have learnt the meaning of complexity, and have simultaneously been able to deconstruct a complex system through the application of reductionism. Through adapting this understanding to real-world examples such as a beehive and standing ovation taught me to recognise the relevance of this subject’s content in the future as an information systems professional. Additionally, developing a clear conception of complexity created a solid basis for the concepts introduced in the second week. Firstly, I learnt useful mechanisms when deconstructing a complex system, being a model. Thus, I have been able to understand the purpose of modelling in unpacking and interpreting large volumes of data for example identification of patterns and predictions. In building on the concept of modelling, it has been conveyed that models are a fundamental tool in converting heavy data into wisdom. However, upon reflection, a key consideration was allocating the correct number of models to provide useful results for a particular dataset. 

•	What do I 'now know' that I did not before?
Upon reflecting and making comparisons between my prior and current knowledge on complex systems, it became evident that my knowledge has greatly developed. In particular, the week 2 workshop has provided be with a framework which enables me to psychologically deconstruct a multielement system into components. This is greatly beneficial as an information systems professional as it allows me to address a complex issue or idea and break it down into various subgroups, hence facilitating the development of predictability and an understanding of how it functions. Prior to this subject, my limited knowledge of modelling and reductionism created barriers when approaching large scale concepts, however, my newly developed ability to summarise and break-down the respective elements has ease the process of addressing complex systems. Further, the notion of a wisdom hierarchy was something that I didn’t know beforehand. This concept provided an understanding of how modelling can assist in transforming large volumes of data into wisdom.

•	What insights have I gained?
The week 2 workshop has provided me with various insights. Firstly, the most impactful insight gained is the realisation that the functionality and behaviour of a complex system can only be understood extensively through breaking it down and developing pattern and explanations about why the system reacts the way it does. Furthermore, the concept of the wisdom of crowds has introduced an enlightening insight. This ideology ultimately states that the human capacity for generating wisdom can be greatly enhanced as a group as opposed to the knowledge of an individual. This insight will facilitate me when approaching group tasks, as it has revealed that it is through working coherently and collaboratively that we can produce the greatest results.

•	What are (my/the) perceived strengths and weaknesses that I have observed?
Through reflecting upon the week in the Introduction to Human-Centred Complex Systems, I have been able to identify both strengths and weaknesses in myself. More specifically, a heavy weakness which obstructs my ability to gain a deepened understanding of the course is my lack of prior knowledge. Throughout the second week, the introduction of various terms such as wisdom hierarchy, as well as a meticulous exploration of modelling led to the observation that my lack of knowledge in this area created gaps in my ability to understand the content. On a similar note, this led to the observation of my strength being the ability to use real-world examples to enrich my understanding. Ultimately, this strength assists in overcoming my weaknesses, as being able to develop ties between content and examples allowed a deepened and more applicable understanding of content. 

•	What were the challenges I have encountered/observed and how well (did I/my team) handle them?
The most predominant challenged faced were grasping to concepts introduced within the lecture, particularly due to the different teaching approach taken. Whilst in past subjects, content was taught in a structured, syllabus-centred manner, the Introduction to Human-Centred Complex Systems relies more upon real-life examples and academic studies to add clarity and realism. For example, the use of the Condorcet jury theorem facilitates the teaching of the many model theory to determine the suitable number of models to produce in order to accurately explain and reason. As I have only been newly introduced to this approach, challenges arise in understanding the basic concepts needed to apply to examples. Whilst I struggled to adapt in the first week, changes have been made to my approach to this subject in order to maximise my appreciation and understanding of the subject. 

•	What would I do better next time and with what anticipated results?
In completing the post-work of the first workshop, it became apparent that my ability to apply concepts was limited. This stemmed from a lack of depth in understanding content. Consequently, to improve both the understanding and application of the key ideas taught, I made the decision to partake in further external research. Therefore, from these discoveries, it is evident that in order to obtain high-level results and gain an applicable understanding of content, I need to devise strategies that assist in grasping concepts in a manner that best suits by learning style.
